MySQL aggregate functions
MySQL aggregate functions – provide a brief overview of the most commonly used MySQL aggregate functions
AVG – calculate the average value of a set of values or an expression.
COUNT – count the number of rows in a table.
INSTR – return the position of the first occurrence of a substring in a string.
SUM – calculate the sum of a set of values or an expression.
MIN – find the minimum value in a set of values
MAX – find the maximum value in a set of values
GROUP_CONCAT – concatenate strings from a group into a string with various options such as DISTINCT, ORDER BY, and SEPARATOR.
MySQL standard deviation functions – shows you how to compute population standard deviation and sample standard deviation.
MySQL string functions
CONCAT – combine two or more strings into one string.
LENGTH & CHAR_LENGTH – get the length of strings in bytes and in characters.
LEFT – get the left part of a string with a specified length.
REPLACE – search and replaces a substring in a string.
SUBSTRING –  extract a substring starting from a position with a specific length.
TRIM – remove unwanted characters from a string.
FIND_IN_SET – find a string within a comma-separated list of strings.
FORMAT – format a number with a specific locale, rounded to the number of decimals
MySQL control flow functions
CASE – return the corresponding result in THEN branch if the condition in the WHEN branch is satisfied, otherwise return the result in the ELSE branch.
IF – return a value based on a given condition.
IFNULL– return the first argument if it is not NULL, otherwise returns the second argument.
NULLIF– return NULL if the first argument is equal to the second argument, otherwise, returns the first argument.
MySQL date and time functions
CURDATE – return the current date.
DATEDIFF – calculate the number of days between two  DATE values.
DAY – get the day of the month of a specified date.
DATE_ADD – add a time value to date value.
DATE_SUB – subtract a time value from a date value.
DATE_FORMAT – format a date value based on a specified date format.
DAYNAME –  get the name of a weekday for a specified date.
DAYOFWEEK – return the weekday index for a date.
EXTRACT –  extract part of a date.
NOW – return the current date and time at which the statement executed.
MONTH– return an integer that represents a month of a specified date.
STR_TO_DATE – convert a string into a date and time value based on a specified format.
SYSDATE – return the current date.
TIMEDIFF – calculate the difference between two TIME or DATETIME values.
TIMESTAMPDIFF – calculate the difference between two DATE or DATETIME values.
WEEK – return a week number of a date.
WEEKDAY – return a weekday index for a date.
YEAR – return the year part of a date value.
MySQL comparison functions
COALESCE – return the first non-null arguments, which is very handy for substitution of null.
GREATEST & LEAST – take n arguments and return the greatest and least values of the n arguments respectively.
ISNULL – return 1 if the argument is null, otherwise return zero.
MySQL Math functions
ABS –  return the absolute value of a number.
CEIL –  return the smallest integer value greater than or equal to the input number.
FLOOR – return the largest integer value not greater than the argument.
MOD – return the remainder of a number divided by another.
ROUND – rounds a number to a specified number of decimal places.
TRUNCATE – truncate a number to a specified number of decimal places.
Other MySQL functions
LAST_INSERT_ID – obtain the last generated sequence number of the last inserted record.
CAST – convert a value of any type into a value with a specified type.